## Reflection 

So far, in our Netflix Trend dashboard, we have successfully implemented three interactive plots.  For our group, it was important to have a minimal viable product by the end of this milestone. Therefore, the main priority was to have a functional dashboard-- a task much easier said than done!  For this reason, the aesthetics of the dashboard were not high priority and could be the focus of improvements down the line. 

First and foremost, it is pretty obvious from the dashboard that a plot is missing. The first plot we wanted to implement allows users to visualize where movies released on Netflix were produced, filtered on the movie length ("Duration") and release year ("Year"). This is the only plot we ran into consistent challenges with. Several team members were able to get this plot up and running locally (see [issue](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/movie_dashboard/issues/24), but whenever this particular plot was deployed to Heroku, an error occurred that caused the dashboard to fail. After a lot of troubleshooting and office hours, the plot was still not able to be rendered on Heroku. We were advised to include this troublesome plot in this reflection.  However, we are confident that this plot can be included in future milestones -- and if not, a replacement plot can take its place. 

The second plot shows the average cast size of movies released on Netlix, filtered over the movie release year. Originally, this plot was supposed to be a pie chart of genres with the interaction element allowing users to filter by year. However, early on in the construction of this plot, it became apparent that a pie chart of genres would not be useful feature on the dashboard.  Due to the sheer number of genres present in the movie dataset, a pie chart would be unreadable due to the amount of "slices" dedicated to each genre! We pivoted to a backup option that was brainstormed during Milestone 1. 

The third plot is the count of movies released on the Netflix platform, with two interactive features: rating (ie. G, PG-13, etc) and release year. This is a helpful tool for users who want to see the trends of the types of movies Netflix releases over time. This plot worked as expected, however, it is the "laggiest" of the three plots. It is unclear if this is a local issue or a Heroku issue. The slow rendering is definitely something to investigate next milestone!

Overall, there is still a lot of room for improvement in our dashboard. For example, a more cohesive theme could be integrated into all the plots to make the dashboard appear more uniform and professional. Additionally, informative text could be added into the dashboard to guide users on what the dashboard's purpose is and what kind of questions the dashboard can answer. Finally, as we are only a group of three people, there is definitely room for another plot or two to fill out the application.
